I have John Paul kept a Negro welcome to
my DVD series revolution Lemnos can be
found when you first create a layer in
the layer palette you have a choice of
making a new layer or a new adjustment
layer these are two different types of
ways of making flexible adjustments each
of them have the ability to be masking
each of them has a blend mode so when
you make a new layer you can actually
change the blend mode upon making it or
after making at any time in the future
the ones that are highlighted here
multiply screen overlay and these four
essential ones down below are the ones
that I use again and again and again
again I mentioned that multiply is like
taking two transparencies on a light
table of registering and building up
density screen is like taking two slides
projecting the same point on the on a
wall and having the entire image lighten
up
particularly in the highlights overlay
is really combination of these two soft
light and hard light functions similarly
but they have different side effects and
for that reason I'll show you why I have
favored overlay and these down here are
very often underestimated these allow
you to target specific components of
color luminosity hue saturation and
colors a combination of hue and
saturation so familiarize yourself with
these blend notes they're extremely
useful overlay I'm gonna come in with a
black brush and explore what kind of
detail I can find in the highlights
notice I painted a black blotch in the
bright areas I want to show you that you
can then scan through the image using
the move tool I'm on the layer and I'm
going to move that black spot into other
areas of the image say this highlight
which contains some very hot highlight
detail this is great for being able to
just scan through the image very quickly
and see which areas of the image are
likely to be benefit to benefit from the
this type of adjustment it can also tell
you that this industrial-strength
technique can easily cause problems in
the opposite end of the tonal scale this
is very intensive fact
you want to keep it away from shadows or
you can quickly clip values and produce
adverse effects rather than beneficial
effects let's take a look at the
difference between that and a white spot
which I might add initially inside the
shadows notice how much that opens up
the shadows and we'll use the move tool
again to scan through the image notice
it produces big problems in the
highlights you really want to use this
technique very carefully as I scan
through the shadows I can see how much
shadow detail is there in this crack
there's something useful going after in
this darker shadow I've got a lot of
detail up in here much less information
so there are areas that I can quickly
see that may not benefit from this
technique and I can quickly scan through
and decide where to go this is also as
an important concept to think about
before committing to solutions research
the possibilities within the image
explore a little bit don't try and get
it perfect find out what your options
are what the possibility is each image
contains may or may not be and then
start building a total solution so
explore first then apply